# Accessibility

Specific recommendations will reference W3C Proposed Recommendations from the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 (June 2018), the Accessible British Columbia Act, and other best practice recommendations from Disability resources and communities. Because accessibility laws are still in their infancy in Canada, the ADA and American Accessibility Standards may be recommended at times as a goalpost, aknowleding that SFU Galleries is not currently required to conform to any best practices or accessibility standards per Canadian law. These recommendations seek to make SFU Galleries digital offerings and needs more accessible for users first, while acknowleding that laws, regulations, and policy are being developed currently within SFU that may eventually require SFU Galleries to use and follow.

This report uses for a minimum conformance of Level AA within the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) which is a foundational level of accessibility. While Level AAA Success Criteria is always a goal worth striving for, there are few developers practicing accessible code such that it conforms to these standards as it often is not a priority for non-Disabled and Hearing centred organizations and clients, and many of the conformance success criterial prioritize functionality and access over design. Design firms themselves may say that they are working to support an accessible web, but unless asked, will not work highter than an A or AA level of conformance unless specifically tasked and budgeted for. As such many softwares and organizations are still using WCAG 2.0 or 2.1 to set their conformance goals, with a minimum level A conformance.

Some feedback will be based on user feedback, and recommendations from the author as an arts worker, audience member, and artist working within the contemporary arts. This holistic approach centres the human experience over design and developer goals. The author of this report prioritizes Disability and Social justice within their recommendations, and follows the 10 principals of Disability Justice as defined by Sins Invalid.

Recommendations that conflict with existing policies, procedures, or guidelines at SFU Galleries, SFU policy and procedures, and recommendations currently in development related to the new Gibson museum planned for 2025 are to be taken into consideration, but the author acknowledges that accessibility is a moving target. Whenever possible, use these recommendations as a starting point to begin a conversation. When a recommendation creates an access conflict for existing or prioritized users, document and consider the risks and opportunities before overwriting existing systems. Creative access is a process and accessibility work is ultimately about people gathering with agency at their own time.